README.md, before:

# CSCI-4966 Open Source Software
## Introduction to Open Source Spring Semester 2019

## Instructor: Wesley D. Turner

### Undergraduate Mentors:

- Byan Dieudonne dieudb@rpi.edu
- Dan McCrevan mccred@rpi.edu
- Adrian Collado collada@rpi.edu
- Olivier Poulin poulio@rpi.edu

**We are extremely thankful to RedHat for their generous support. Thanks to Mr. Tom Callaway and Ms. Gina Likins for their valuable advice and suggestions.
Generally, lectures are on Tuesdays and Labs are on Fridays. This will be flipped for some portion of the class due to the Friday = Tuesday start.**

## Open Source has been taught at RPI since Fall of 2007 (taught jointly by Dr. William Shroeder and Dr. Luis Ibanez) as a 4000 level class and by Prof. Mukkai Krishnamoorthy as a 2000 level class. It is again a 4000 level class in the 

### Meets in AE 215 on Tuesdays,Fridays from 12:00pm - 1:50pm

### Office Hours: T, Th 2 - 3:30 pm, Amos Eaton 207

### We are extremely thankful to RedHat for their generous support. Thanks to Mr. Tom Callaway and Ms. Gina Likins for their valuable advice and suggestions.

Also, we like to leverage open source resources whenever possible, so:

> This class is supported by DataCamp, the most intuitive learning platform for data science. Learn R, Python and SQL the way you learn best through a combination of short expert videos and hands-on-the-keyboard exercises. Take over 100+ courses by expert instructors on topics such as importing data, data visualization or machine learning and learn faster through immediate and personalised feedback on every exercise.”

Commit message:

Updated info to Summer 2019, renamed module 01.

README.md, after:

# CSCI-4966 Open Source Software
Open Source Software for the Summer 2019 Semester

## Class Information

Meets in Carnegie 113 on Tuesdays and Fridays from 10:30am - 12:35pm.
- **Instructor** - Wesley D. Turner
    - turnew2@rpi.edu
    - Office Hours Tuesday - Amos Eaton 207 - 3:30pm - 5:00pm
    - Office Hours Thursday - Amos Eaton 207 - 2:00pm - 3:30pm
- **Graduate Mentor** - Minerva Opare-Addo
    - oparem2@rpi.edu
    - Office Hours Monday - Amos Eaton 119 - 12:00pm to 2:00pm
- **Undergraduate Mentor** - Adrian Collado
    - collaa@rpi.edu
    - Office Hours Tuesday & Friday - Carnegie 113 - 12:35pm to 2:00pm
- **Undergraduate Mentor** - John Allwein
    - allwej@rpi.edu
    - Office Hours Tuesday & Friday - Carnegie 113 - 12:35pm to 2:00pm


## Acknowledgements
**Open Source has been taught at RPI since the Fall of 2007 (taught jointly by Dr. William Shroeder and Dr. Luis Ibanez) as a 4000 level course and by Prof. Mukkai Krishnamoorthy as a 2000 level course.**

**We are extremely thankful to RedHat for their generous support. Thanks to Mr. Tom Callaway and Ms. Gina Likins for their valuable advice and suggestions.**

## Resources
- This class is supported by **DataCamp**, the most intuitive platform for data science. Learn R, Python and SQL the way you learn best through a combination of short expert videos and hands-on-the-keyboard exercises. Take over 100+ courses by expert instructors on topics such as importing data, data visualization or machine learning and learn faster through immediate and personalised feedback on every exercise.
