Syllabus.md, before:

# CSCI 2963-01 Introduction to Open Source
## Instructor: Mukkai Krishnamoorthy moorthy@cs.rpi.edu
## Class Place and Time: ** Walker 5113 ** T, F  Noon - 1:50 pm
### Office Hours: T, F 2 - 3:30 pm, Lally 305

### Undergraduate Teaching Assistants:

- Adeet Phanse '18 phansa@rpi.edu
- Matthew Mawby '18 mawbym@rpi.edu
- Kevin Zhang '18 zhangk6@rpi.edu



##  Lectures are on Tuesdays and Labs are on Fridays

## Goal of this Class:

Familiarize with open source software development, be familiar and eager to learn new technology stacks,
Reading and Understanding Good Code.
Patch an existing open source project. Work on a team collaborative project. Become aware of/conversant in team project and diversity issues. Prepare a new RCOS project for the following semester.

## Learning Outcome:

The goal of this course is to provide a strong foundation in open source software development
in preparation for jobs in industry or for more advanced courses.

- Understanding of Open Source Software Tools and community
- Understanding of Open Source Licensing.
- Understanding of Testing, Version Control.
- Understanding of Open Source Software Stack.

## Syllabus:

1. Foundations
  -  History of Open Source
   - Licensing

2. Software Management Tools
  - Version Control
  - Documentation Tools
  - System Build
  - Specification and Testing
  - Collaborative Development

3. Software Development  Tools
  - Scientific Computing
  - Statistical Computing
  - Databases

4. Software Applications
  - Web Development
  - Cloud Computing Platform
  - Mobile Applications
 
5. Open Hardware

6. Projects

## Grading Criteria:

- 2 Quizzes (15 points each) - 30%  (**24th February, 14th April**)
- 10 Labs (3 points each) - 30%
- Project - 40%

## Quiz Dates

- Quiz 1 24th February
- Quiz 2 14th April

93 and above A; 90 and above A-; 85 and above B+; 80 and above B; 75 and above B-; 70 and above C+; 65 and above C; 60 and above C-; 55 and above D+; 50 and above D.

## Community:

Please join csci2963-01spring2017 channel in http://rcos.slack.com 

## Integrity

Collaboration is allowed (but do not copy blindly - please understand). Labs and Quizzes should be solved and written by individuals alone. 
Project is a group project (group of 3 or 4).
If anyone is caught cheating, severe measures will be taken such as lowering the final grade, and the event will be reported to the appropriate authorities in the campus.

Commit message:

Ready for Week 1
These are the changes for Week 1, Summer 2018. Try to run through the
Lecture-1-1, Lecture-1-2 and Lecture-1-3 on Monday. Lab 1 on Thursday.

Syllabus.md, after:


# CSCI-4961-01
## Introduction to Open Source Summer Semester 2018

## Instructor: Wesley D. Turner

### Undergraduate Teaching Assistants:

- Adrian Collado collaa@rpi.edu
- Alexander Schwartzberg schwaa6@rpi.edu

## (Open Source has been taught at RPI since Fall of 2007 (taught jointly by Dr. William Shroeder and Dr. Luis Ibanez) as a 4000 level class, and then by Mukkai Krishnamoorthy as a 2000 level class.)

### Meets in DCC 337 on Mondays,Thursdays from 10:30am - 12:35pm

### Office Hours: M, Th 4 - 5:30 pm, Amos Eaton 207

### We are extremely thankful to RedHat for their generous support. Thanks to Mr. Tom Callaway and Ms. Gina Likins for their valuable advice and suggestions.

##  Lectures are on Mondays and Labs are on Thursdays

## Goal of this Class:

Familiarize with open source software development, be familiar and eager to learn new technology stacks,
Reading and Understanding Good Code.
Patch an existing open source project. Work on a team collaborative project. Become aware of/conversant in team project and diversity issues. Prepare a new RCOS project for the following semester.

## Learning Outcome:

The goal of this course is to provide a strong foundation in open source software development
in preparation for jobs in industry or for more advanced courses.

- Understanding of Open Source Software Tools and Community
- Understanding of Open Source Licensing.
- Understanding of Testing, Version Control.
- Understanding of Open Source Software Stack.

## Syllabus:

1. Foundations
  -  History of Open Source
   - Licensing

2. Software Management Tools
  - Version Control
  - Documentation Tools
  - System Build
  - Specification and Testing
  - Collaborative Development

3. Software Development  Tools
  - Scientific Computing
  - Statistical Computing
  - Databases

4. Software Applications
  - Web Development
  - Cloud Computing Platform
  - Mobile Applications
 
5. Open Hardware

6. Projects

## Grading Criteria:

- 2 Quizzes (10 points each) - 20%
- Open Source Project Analysis - 10%
- 10 Labs (3 points each) - 30%
- Project - 40%

## Quiz Dates

- Quiz 1 28th June
- Quiz 2 16th August

## Opensource Paper Due
- Quiz 2 14th June

93 and above A; 90 and above A-; 87 and above B+; 83 and above B; 80 and above B-; 77 and above C+; 73 and above C; 70 and above C-; 67 and above D+; 60 and above D.

## Community:

Please join csci-4961-01-Summer2018 channel in http://rcos.slack.com 

## Integrity

Collaboration is allowed (but do not copy blindly - please understand). Labs and Quizzes should be solved and written by individuals alone. 
Project is a group project (group of 3 or 4).
If anyone is caught cheating, severe measures will be taken such as lowering the final grade, and the event will be reported to the appropriate authorities in the campus.
