Modules/01.Introduction/Lab-Introduction.md, before:

# Lab 01 - Friday January 29th, 2021 (in class lab)

## Github, Linux Command Line Instructions, Regular Expressions and Visual Programming

***Maintain a repository on github for all your lab work. Inside, you should create a markdown page (lab01.md) for this lab's work. You will be graded by the beginning of the next lab. To submit this assignment, create a text file with 2 lines. The first line should be a link to your github repository and the second link should be the link to your Lab 1 entry. Submit this as the only file to [Submitty](https://submitty.cs.rpi.edu/courses/s21/csci4470).***

> Markdown syntax is [here](https://help.github.com/articles/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax/) and [here](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) 

1. **Create and setup a Github account** 
  1. Go through this tutorial to get familiar with [git and github](http://readwrite.com/2013/09/30/understanding-github-a-journey-for-beginners-part-1) and to set up a git hub account.

  2. Fork the [template repository](https://github.com/rcos/oss-repo-template).
  3. Fill out the information in the document.
  	 - Please have your name and a photo in the markdown page . [Here is a sample page](https://github.com/mskmoorthy/Doc-ex1/blob/master/lab-1-sample.Md).
  	 - You can copy and paste screen shots as well as add text.
  	 - Please add your Mattermost handle.

1. **Reading assignments** - make sure to reflect on these in a lab1.md file in your repository 
  
  1. Please read the 10 criteria of [Open Source Definition](http://opensource.org/osd) and understand why they are important.
  2. Please read Eric Raymond's article [Smart Questions](http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html) How to ask the question The Smart Way . 
     - Do you have more suggestions for How To Answer Questions in a Helpful Way (from your past experience)
     - List at least two.
  3. Please read chapter 3 of [Free Culture](https://github.com/rcos/CSCI-4470-OpenSource/blob/master/Resources/freeculture.pdf)
     - Write a short paragraph ( 8 to 10 sentences) of what you got out of reading that chapter.
  4. Read the first chapter in [Beautiful Code](https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&pid=sites&srcid=ZGVmYXVsdGRvbWFpbnxpb3ZhbmFsZXh8Z3g6MjVjYWFmNjAwYTA0MmMxZA) about the development and implementation (in C) of a very simple grep
     - You don't need to record anything here on the reading, but it will help you with the exercises on ***grep***, ***egrep***, and ***regex***.

  
1. **Linux** 

  1. Boot linux (Ubuntu) through a USB, dual boot, or WSL
     - Get familiar with the directory structure.
     - Practice with ls, cd, mkdir, chmod commands - when in doubt search the web to find the answer.
  2. Practice with grep, egrep commands
     - Look at the manual (`man grep`) to see how to use these commands. 
  3. Install tree and get the directory structure. 
     - On linux: `sudo apt-get install tree`, or use the Ubuntu software install
     - on OSX: `brew install tree`
     - `man tree`
     - **For Ubuntu versions 18.04 and greater:** 
        - `sudo snap install tree`
        - `tree --help` 
     - On WSL, it looks like it is already available [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/tree](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/tree)
     - Take a screenshot and add to `lab01.md`

1. **Regex**

  1. In your Foundations of Computer Science class you learned about Regular expressions. (If you have not taken Foundations of Computer Science class, please talk to the instructor for an explanation). Please do the practice problems given [here](https://regexone.com/problem/matching_decimal_numbers). 
     - To get full credit, do at least 7 problems.
     - Take a screenshot and add to `lab01.md`
  3. Go through the tutorials [here](https://regexcrossword.com/challenges/tutorial/puzzles/1) to practice regex crosswords, then try a few problems.
     - Do at least four problems on beginner level [here](https://regexcrossword.com/challenges/beginner/puzzles/1 ).
     - Take a screenshot and add to `lab01.md`
  4. (Optional But Recommended) Do problem 11 in [adventofcode 2015](http://adventofcode.com/2015/day/11) (You may use regular expression) 


1. **Play with** [Snap](http://snap.berkeley.edu/) or
[Blockly](https://blockly-games.appspot.com/) 
  
   - Create some thing using Snap or solve [this](https://blockly-games.appspot.com/maze?lang=en&level=10&skin=0) using blockly
   - Add documentation (screenshots) of your accomplishments to `lab1.md`

1. **Reflection**

   - Pick an Open Source Project that might be interesting to evaluate
   - Start thinking/finding a problem/project that interests you 
   - Add a paragraph on how you are doing this activity to `lab01.md`
   - Check out [http://aosabook.org/en/index.html](http://aosabook.org/en/index.html) for a list of a number of open source projects and for a discussion of the architectures they use.

<!--#### Revisit e. Replace with TOS activity on evaluating open source ... 
[foss2serve](http://foss2serve.org/index.php/Intro_to_FOSS_Project_Anatomy_(Activity)), [Evaluation](http://users.dickinson.edu/~braught/courses/cs491f17/projexpl.html)
[projects](http://foss2serve.org/index.php/HFOSS_Projects), [RCOS](https://rcos.io/projects), others.
-->

Commit message:

Minor revision to make sure everyone is on Discord

Modules/01.Introduction/Lab-Introduction.md, after:

# Lab 01 - Friday January 29th, 2021 (in class lab)

## Github, Linux Command Line Instructions, Regular Expressions and Visual Programming

***Maintain a repository on github for all your lab work. Inside, you should create a markdown page (lab01.md) for this lab's work. You will be graded by the beginning of the next lab. To submit this assignment, create a text file with 2 lines. The first line should be a link to your github repository and the second link should be the link to your Lab 1 entry. Submit this as the only file to [Submitty](https://submitty.cs.rpi.edu/courses/s21/csci4470).***

> Markdown syntax is [here](https://help.github.com/articles/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax/) and [here](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) 

1. **Create and setup a Github account** 
  1. Go through this tutorial to get familiar with [git and github](http://readwrite.com/2013/09/30/understanding-github-a-journey-for-beginners-part-1) and to set up a git hub account.

  2. Fork the [template repository](https://github.com/rcos/oss-repo-template).
  3. Fill out the information in the document.
  	 - Please have your name and a photo in the markdown page . [Here is a sample page](https://github.com/mskmoorthy/Doc-ex1/blob/master/lab-1-sample.Md).
  	 - You can copy and paste screen shots as well as add text.
  	 - Please add your Mattermost handle.

1. **Reading assignments** - make sure to reflect on these in a lab1.md file in your repository 
  1. If you haven't already joined our Discord, use this invitation to join [https://discord.gg/R9qyC7aY](https://discord.gg/R9qyC7aY) 
  2. Post a message into the "#general" channel
  3. Capture the post and paste it into your Lab 1 notebook.

1. **Reading assignments** - make sure to reflect on these in a lab1.md file in your repository 
  
  1. Please read the 10 criteria of [Open Source Definition](http://opensource.org/osd) and understand why they are important.
  2. Please read Eric Raymond's article [Smart Questions](http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html) How to ask the question The Smart Way . 
     - Do you have more suggestions for How To Answer Questions in a Helpful Way (from your past experience)
     - List at least two.
  3. Please read chapter 3 of [Free Culture](https://github.com/rcos/CSCI-4470-OpenSource/blob/master/Resources/freeculture.pdf)
     - Write a short paragraph ( 8 to 10 sentences) of what you got out of reading that chapter.
  4. Read the first chapter in [Beautiful Code](https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&pid=sites&srcid=ZGVmYXVsdGRvbWFpbnxpb3ZhbmFsZXh8Z3g6MjVjYWFmNjAwYTA0MmMxZA) about the development and implementation (in C) of a very simple grep
     - You don't need to record anything here on the reading, but it will help you with the exercises on ***grep***, ***egrep***, and ***regex***.

  
1. **Linux** 

  1. Boot linux (Ubuntu) through a USB, dual boot, or WSL
     - Get familiar with the directory structure.
     - Practice with ls, cd, mkdir, chmod commands - when in doubt search the web to find the answer.
  2. Practice with grep, egrep commands
     - Look at the manual (`man grep`) to see how to use these commands. 
  3. Install tree and get the directory structure. 
     - On linux: `sudo apt-get install tree`, or use the Ubuntu software install
     - on OSX: `brew install tree`
     - `man tree`
     - **For Ubuntu versions 18.04 and greater:** 
        - `sudo snap install tree`
        - `tree --help` 
     - On WSL, it looks like it is already available [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/tree](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/tree)
     - Take a screenshot and add to `lab01.md`

1. **Regex**

  1. In your Foundations of Computer Science class you learned about Regular expressions. (If you have not taken Foundations of Computer Science class, please talk to the instructor for an explanation). Please do the practice problems given [here](https://regexone.com/problem/matching_decimal_numbers). 
     - To get full credit, do at least 7 problems.
     - Take a screenshot and add to `lab01.md`
  3. Go through the tutorials [here](https://regexcrossword.com/challenges/tutorial/puzzles/1) to practice regex crosswords, then try a few problems.
     - Do at least four problems on beginner level [here](https://regexcrossword.com/challenges/beginner/puzzles/1 ).
     - Take a screenshot and add to `lab01.md`
  4. (Optional But Recommended) Do problem 11 in [adventofcode 2015](http://adventofcode.com/2015/day/11) (You may use regular expression) 


1. **Play with** [Snap](http://snap.berkeley.edu/) or
[Blockly](https://blockly-games.appspot.com/) 
  
   - Create some thing using Snap or solve [this](https://blockly-games.appspot.com/maze?lang=en&level=10&skin=0) using blockly
   - Add documentation (screenshots) of your accomplishments to `lab1.md`

1. **Reflection**

   - Pick an Open Source Project that might be interesting to evaluate
   - Start thinking/finding a problem/project that interests you 
   - Add a paragraph on how you are doing this activity to `lab01.md`
   - Check out [http://aosabook.org/en/index.html](http://aosabook.org/en/index.html) for a list of a number of open source projects and for a discussion of the architectures they use.

<!--#### Revisit e. Replace with TOS activity on evaluating open source ... 
[foss2serve](http://foss2serve.org/index.php/Intro_to_FOSS_Project_Anatomy_(Activity)), [Evaluation](http://users.dickinson.edu/~braught/courses/cs491f17/projexpl.html)
[projects](http://foss2serve.org/index.php/HFOSS_Projects), [RCOS](https://rcos.io/projects), others.
-->
