Resources/Syllabus.md, before:


# CSCI-4961-01
## Open Source Software Spring Semester 2019

## Instructor: Wesley D. Turner

### TA

- Minerva Opare-Addo oparem2@rpi.edu
- Office Hours: TBD

### Undergraduate Mentors:

- John Allwein allwej@rpi.edu
- Adrian Collado collada@rpi.edu

## Open Source has been taught at RPI since Fall of 2007 (taught jointly by Dr. William Shroeder and Dr. Luis Ibanez) as a 4000 level class, and then by Mukkai Krishnamoorthy as a 2000 level class. We will continue this tradition by offering it as a 4000 level course this semester and in the Summer.

### Meets in Carnegie 113 on Tuesdays, Fridays from 10:30pm - 12:35pm

### Office Hours: Tuesday 3:30-5:00, Thursday 2:00-3:30, Amos Eaton 207

### We are extremely thankful to RedHat for their generous support. Thanks to Mr. Tom Callaway and Ms. Gina Likins for their valuable advice and suggestions.

## Goal of this Class:

- Familiarize students with open source software development
- Have them be familiar with and eager to learn new technology stacks
- Able to Read and Understand Good Code.
- Patch an existing open source project. 
- Work on a team collaborative project. 
- Become aware of and conversant in team project and diversity issues. 
- Prepare a new RCOS project for the following semester.

## Learning Outcomes:

The goal of this course is to provide a strong foundation in open source software development
in preparation for jobs in industry or for more advanced courses.

- Understanding of Open Source Software Tools and Community
- Understanding of Open Source Licensing.
- Understanding of Testing, Version Control.
- Understanding of Common Open Source Software Stacks.

## Syllabus:

1. Foundations
  -  History of Open Source
   - Licensing

2. Software Management Tools
  - Version Control
  - Documentation Tools
  - System Build
  - Specification and Testing
  - Collaborative Development

3. Software Development Tools and Paradigms
  - Scientific Computing
  - Statistical Computing
  - Databases

4. Software Applications
  - Web Development
  - Cloud Computing Platform
  - Mobile Applications
 
5. Topics of interest (Open Hardware, Tensor Flow, etc.)

6. Projects

## Grading Criteria:

- 2 Quizzes (10 points each) - 20%
- Open Source Project Analysis - 10%
- 11 Labs (3 points each/drop lowest) - 30%
- Project - 40%

## Test Dates

- Quiz 1 28th June
- Quiz 2 13th August

## Opensource Paper Due
- 21st June

## Grade Distribution

- 93 and above A
- 90 and above A-
- 87 and above B+
- 83 and above B
- 80 and above B-
- 77 and above C+
- 73 and above C
- 70 and above C-
- 67 and above D+
- 60 and above D

## Community:

Please join https://chat.rcos.io/oss-summer2019 on Mattermost. 

## Integrity

Student-teacher relationships are built on trust. For example, students must trust that teachers have made appropriate decisions about the structure and content of the courses they teach, and teachers must trust that the assignments that students turn in are their own. Acts that violate this trust undermine the educational process.

In this course, collaboration in your project group (3 or 4 students) is allowed, but should not be abused. Do not copy blindly. Labs and Quizzes should be solved and written by individuals alone. If anyone is caught cheating, severe measures will be taken such as lowering the final grade, and the event will be reported to the appropriate authorities in the campus.

The Rensselaer Handbook of Student Rights and Responsibilities and the Graduate Student Supplement (For 6000 level and above courses) define various forms of Academic Dishonesty and you should make yourself familiar with these. All assignments that are turned in for a grade must represent the student’s own work. In cases where help was received, or teamwork was allowed, a notation on the assignment should indicate your collaboration. Submission of any assignment that is in violation of this policy will result in (1) an academic (grade) penalty and (2) reporting to the Dean of Academic Affairs and either the Dean of Students (for Undergraduates) or the Dean of Graduate Education (for Graduate students).

In this course, the academic penalty for a first offense is loss of a letter grade. A second offense will result in failure of the course.
If you have any questions concerning this policy before submitting an assignment, please ask for clarification.

Commit message:

Missed a few things from the Syllabus
Added course policies to the syllabus and to the
slides based on the paperwork submitted to get the
course approved to the Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute, Department of Computer Science course catalog.

Resources/Syllabus.md, after:


# CSCI-4961-01
## Open Source Software Spring Semester 2019

## Instructor: Wesley D. Turner

### TA

- Minerva Opare-Addo oparem2@rpi.edu
- Office Hours: TBD

### Undergraduate Mentors:

- John Allwein allwej@rpi.edu
- Adrian Collado collada@rpi.edu

## Open Source has been taught at RPI since Fall of 2007 (taught jointly by Dr. William Shroeder and Dr. Luis Ibanez) as a 4000 level class, and then by Mukkai Krishnamoorthy as a 2000 level class. We will continue this tradition by offering it as a 4000 level course this semester and in the Summer.

### Meets in Carnegie 113 on Tuesdays, Fridays from 10:30pm - 12:35pm

### Office Hours: Tuesday 3:30-5:00, Thursday 2:00-3:30, Amos Eaton 207

### We are extremely thankful to RedHat for their generous support. Thanks to Mr. Tom Callaway and Ms. Gina Likins for their valuable advice and suggestions.

## Goal of this Class:

- Familiarize students with open source software development
- Have them be familiar with and eager to learn new technology stacks
- Able to Read and Understand Good Code.
- Patch an existing open source project. 
- Work on a team collaborative project. 
- Become aware of and conversant in team project and diversity issues. 
- Prepare a new RCOS project for the following semester.

## Learning Outcomes:

The goal of this course is to provide a strong foundation in open source software development
in preparation for jobs in industry or for more advanced courses.

- Understanding of Open Source Software Tools and Community
- Understanding of Open Source Licensing.
- Understanding of Testing, Version Control.
- Understanding of Common Open Source Software Stacks.

## Syllabus:

1. Foundations
  -  History of Open Source
   - Licensing

2. Software Management Tools
  - Version Control
  - Documentation Tools
  - System Build
  - Specification and Testing
  - Collaborative Development

3. Software Development Tools and Paradigms
  - Scientific Computing
  - Statistical Computing
  - Databases

4. Software Applications
  - Web Development
  - Cloud Computing Platform
  - Mobile Applications
 
5. Topics of interest (Open Hardware, Tensor Flow, etc.)

6. Projects

## Grading Criteria:

- 2 Quizzes (10 points each) - 20%
- Open Source Project Analysis - 10%
- 11 Labs (3 points each/drop lowest) - 30%
- Project - 40%

## Test Dates

- Quiz 1 28th June
- Quiz 2 13th August

## Opensource Paper Due
- 21st June

## Grade Distribution

- 93 and above A
- 90 and above A-
- 87 and above B+
- 83 and above B
- 80 and above B-
- 77 and above C+
- 73 and above C
- 70 and above C-
- 67 and above D+
- 60 and above D

## Community:

Please join https://chat.rcos.io/oss-summer2019 on Mattermost. 

## Policies
 
These will be designated by the instructor in advance to the student and will deal with the following issues. 

### Lateness
 Late submissions receive a penalty of 10% with an additional 10% penalty (20% total) for up to a week late. Assignments are not generally accepted more than one week late. 

### Class participation 
Regular attendance and participation is expected.

### Attendance
 Regular attendance and participation is expected. 

### Missed exams or assignments: 
A formal excused absence is required to make up a missed assignment or to turn in an assignment after the due date.

## Integrity

Student-teacher relationships are built on trust. For example, students must trust that teachers have made appropriate decisions about the structure and content of the courses they teach, and teachers must trust that the assignments that students turn in are their own. Acts that violate this trust undermine the educational process.

In this course, collaboration in your project group (3 or 4 students) is allowed, but should not be abused. Do not copy blindly. Labs and Quizzes should be solved and written by individuals alone. If anyone is caught cheating, severe measures will be taken such as lowering the final grade, and the event will be reported to the appropriate authorities in the campus.

The Rensselaer Handbook of Student Rights and Responsibilities and the Graduate Student Supplement (For 6000 level and above courses) define various forms of Academic Dishonesty and you should make yourself familiar with these. All assignments that are turned in for a grade must represent the student’s own work. In cases where help was received, or teamwork was allowed, a notation on the assignment should indicate your collaboration. Submission of any assignment that is in violation of this policy will result in (1) an academic (grade) penalty and (2) reporting to the Dean of Academic Affairs and either the Dean of Students (for Undergraduates) or the Dean of Graduate Education (for Graduate students).

In this course, the academic penalty for a first offense is loss of a letter grade. A second offense will result in failure of the course.
If you have any questions concerning this policy before submitting an assignment, please ask for clarification.
