Assignments/Term Project/Project Week 1.md, before:

**It's important to keep working on your final projects so that you do not fall behind. This project represents a large portion of your final grade
and you will learn many useful skills from working on it. Do not be afraid to ask for help if you are having problems/struggling.
We all want you to succeed and do well so do not hesitate to ask a mentor or Professor Turner for help!**

- **One member of each group should post the following information to the Projects Channel on Mattermost**

  - Project Name

  - Link to the Observatory [https://rcos.io/projects](https://rcos.io/projects) page for your project. If you don't have one, please make one. Ask us if you don't know how to do this.

  - Link to your blog (It is recommended use the observatory blogging feature).

  - Link to the Github repository of your project.

  - List of collaborators on the project

- **Starting next Monday you should be updating the blog with one post per week person and committing at least 3-4 times per person to your repository. Blogging
is important as it will help us to track your progress as well as keep you on track towards achieving all the goals you have set out for yourself, so not
neglect this aspect of the project!**

- **Also next week we will be doing quick interim presentations on your project. Be sure to follow the [InterimReport.md](InterimReport.md) guidelines.**

Make sure you are following everything on the [GradingRubric-for-Projects.md](GradingRubric-for-Projects.md).

Commit message:

New semester, new rules. Teachnology marches on.

Assignments/Term Project/Project Week 1.md, after:

It's important to keep working on your final projects so that you do not fall behind. This project represents a large portion of your final grade
and you will learn many useful skills from working on it. Do not be afraid to ask for help if you are having problems/struggling. Remember that not every contribution needs to be code, but every contribution does need to be documented in an Open Source way and attributable to you. If you are a new project, consider uploading your design documents to your repository.
Scanned versions of hand written diagrams are fine, although, computer generatable diagrams and wire frames are even better. If you are contributing to an established project, consider creating or improving the **Getting Started Guide** as you come up to speed. If you are in a learning mode or exploring new technology, consider keeping a lab notebook in a fork in your personal copy of the repository or maybe creating an annotated bibliography or lab notebook that documents what you are trying or the resources you are using.
We all want you to succeed and do well so do not hesitate to ask a mentor, your TA, or Professor Turner for help!

- **Your team will need to write a proposal for your project and post it to Submitty along with your Team Name and Team Members. You can find a template for this at [ProjectProposalTemplate.md](ProjectProposalTemplate.md) in this repository. The project should have:**

    - Project name
    - Github repository with an appropriate license.
    - Summary of the overall goals
    - Goals specific to this semester
    - Any technology stack information that is known.
    - The team members with Github handles and email addresses
    - A list of rough milestones for the semester with anticipated dates.
    
- **One member of each group should also post the following information to the Projects Channel on Discord**

  - Project Name
  - Link to the Github repository of your project.
  - List of collaborators on the project

- **Starting next Monday each person should be making an entry in a weekly blog about your progress, your project, or something interesting you learned related to open source during your class explorations. You are welcome to use whatever public blogging tool you want to use, but one easy way is to make a weekly entry in the wiki you set up in Lab 3. You should also be committing at least 3-4 times per person to your repository. Blogging
is important as it will help us to track your progress as well as keep you on track towards achieving all the goals you have set out for yourself, so do not
neglect this aspect of the project!**

- **When we return from break we will be doing quick interim presentations on your project. Be sure to follow the [Interim Report.md](Interim Report.md) guidelines.(This will be updated once I know what and how many projects we have.)**

Make sure you are following everything on the [GradingRubric-for-Projects.md](GradingRubric-for-Projects.md).
