Labs/Lab2.md, before:

## This Lab (5/31/2018) is on Open Source Licensing.
> Some good reading materials are [OSI's Licence page](http://opensource.org/licenses) and the [class lecture notes] (https://github.com/rcos/CSCI-4961-01-Summer-2018/blob/master/Lectures/Lec2-Patrick_Masson-S2017.pdf)
> ###All of your lab reports should be in a github file `Lab2.Md`
> Give a Creative Commons license to your lab report.

1. Read the [four criteria for Free Software](http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html)

2.  Why it is important to choose a LICENSE?
    - Write two to five sentences.

3.  Why is it important that you SHOULDN'T use a project that doesn't have an explicit license?
    - Write two to five sentences.

4. Read the Failure to follow the Open System Model Section of [Why the Web beat Gopher](http://ils.unc.edu/callee/gopherpaper.htm#explain).
    - Do you agree with this claim? Write two to five sentences.

5.  Android uses the [Apache license 2.0 and it's kernel uses GPL v2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Android_(operating_system)), [Linux uses the  GPL v2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux ) license,
Microsoft [.NET Core uses MIT license]( https://github.com/dotnet/coreclr ), SailfishOS is [not open source]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sailfish_OS ).
    - Can you justify why such a license is chosen (Justification for ONE  is enough).

6.  Think of an example project. Pick a license (as a group) using the [LICENSE chooser by Github](http://choosealicense.com/).

7.  Read these licenses  GPL, LGPL and Apache/BSD and discuss which one will be better - for a developer, for a company and for the common good - write 5 to 10 sentences. You may use [tldrlegal](https://tldrlegal.com/licenses/browse).

8.  Create a repository and [choose a license](https://github.com/blog/1530-choosing-an-open-source-license).

9.  Write five sentences about choosing a project to work on in this course, who will be users/customers of the project, and what license will you choose.

10.  Take 5 projects from [Observatory](http://rcos.io/projects) or [past RCOS Projects](https://rcos.io/projects/past) and create a table for which project has which license. for example:

Website | License Present | License
---------|:----------|:-------
https://github.com/rcos/Observatory | Yes | Two Clause BSD License https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISC_license





![Creative Commons License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png) This work is licensed under a http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.

Commit message:

Start reorganization and update Lab 2
I should have made this 2 commits, but this commit revises Lab 2 for
this semester and also begins the reorganuzation into modules. I am
getting rid of the confusing 1, 2, 3, notation and
dividing it up into modules containing lecture notes and the associated
lab.

Labs/Lab2.md, after:

## This Lab (2/5/2019) is on Open Source Licensing.
Some good reading materials are [OSI's Licence page](http://opensource.org/licenses) and the [class lecture notes] (https://github.com/rcos/CSCI-4961-01-Summer-2018/blob/master/Lectures/Lec2-Patrick_Masson-S2017.pdf)

### All of the steps below should be recorded in a github file `Lab4.Md` in your Labs directory
 
 Give a Creative Commons license to your lab report.

1. Read the [four criteria for Free Software](http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html)
2.  Why it is important to choose a LICENSE?
    - Write two to five sentences.
3.  Why is it important that you SHOULDN'T use a project that doesn't have an explicit license?
    - Write two to five sentences.
4. Read the Failure to follow the Open System Model Section of [Why the Web beat Gopher](http://ils.unc.edu/callee/gopherpaper.htm#explain).
    - Do you agree with this claim? Write two to five sentences.
5.  Android uses the [Apache license 2.0 and it's kernel uses GPL v2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Android_(operating_system)), [Linux uses the  GPL v2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux ) license,
Microsoft [.NET Core uses MIT license]( https://github.com/dotnet/coreclr ), SailfishOS is [not open source]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sailfish_OS ).
    - Can you justify why such a license is chosen based on the history, goals and philosophy of the project? (Justification for ONE choice is enough, but be specific and make sure you provide references to articles or web resources).
6.  Think of an example project for your Table. Pick a license (as a group) using the [LICENSE chooser by Github](http://choosealicense.com/).
7.  Read these licenses  GPL, LGPL and Apache/BSD and discuss which one will be better - for a developer, for a company and for the common good - write 5 to 10 sentences. You may use [tldrlegal](https://tldrlegal.com/licenses/browse).
8.  Create a repository and [choose a license](https://github.com/blog/1530-choosing-an-open-source-license).
9.  Write five sentences about choosing a project to work on in this course, who will be users/customers of such a project, and what license you would choose.
10.  Take 5 projects from [Observatory](http://rcos.io/projects) or [past RCOS Projects](https://rcos.io/projects/past) and create a table for which project has which license. for example:

Website | License Present | License
---------|:----------|:-------
https://github.com/rcos/Observatory | Yes | Two Clause BSD License https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISC_license

When you have completed the lab, submit a text file with a link to your lab4.md file via Submitty.

This is a short lab and you should have time available. When you are finished, please use the time to begin working on your [Analysis Project](../Assignments/AnalysisHomework.md)

![Creative Commons License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png) This work is licensed under a http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
