Labs/ProjectCheckpoint.md, before:

**It's important to keep working on your final projects so that you do not fall behind. This project represents a large portion of your final grade
and you will learn many useful skills from working on it. Do not be afraid to ask for help if you are having problems/struggling.
We all want you to succeed and do well so do not hesitate to ask your assigned mentor or Professor Moorthy for help!**

- **One member of each group should send us the following information**

  - Link to the Observatory(https://rcos.io/projects) page for your project. If you don't have one, please make one. Ask us if you don't know how to do this.

  - Link to your blog(It is recommended use the observatory blogging feature).

  - Link to the Github repository of your project.

- **Starting next Monday you should be updating the blog with one post per week person and committing at least 3-4 times per person to your repository. Blogging
is important as it will help us to track your progress as well as keep you on track towards achieving all the goals you have set out for yourself, so not
neglect this aspect of the project!**

- **Also on April11th you should make a one slide presentation containing a progress report on your project so far.**

Make sure you are following everything on the [rubric](../GradingRubric-for-Projects.md).

- **Check the [projects file](../Spring2017Projects.md) to make sure all relevant information about your project is recorded.**

Commit message:

Adding a new Lab8 on testing
Added a new Lab8 that uses VTK and cMake to illustrate automated
testing and working with a public dashboard.

Labs/ProjectCheckpoint.md, after:

**It's important to keep working on your final projects so that you do not fall behind. This project represents a large portion of your final grade
and you will learn many useful skills from working on it. Do not be afraid to ask for help if you are having problems/struggling.
We all want you to succeed and do well so do not hesitate to ask your assigned mentor or Professor Turner for help!**

- **One member of each group should send us the following information**

  - Link to the Observatory (https://rcos.io/projects) page for your project. If you don't have one, please make one. Ask us if you don't know how to do this.

  - Link to your blog or wiki for the project (It is recommended that you use the Observatory blogging feature).

  - Link to the Github repository of your project.

- **Starting next Monday you should be updating the blog with one post per week person and committing at least 3-4 times per week per person to your repository. Blogging
is important as it will help us to track your progress as well as keep you on track towards achieving all the goals you have set out for yourself, so do not
neglect this aspect of the project!**

- **Also on July 30th, you should be prepared to make a one slide progress report on your project so far.**

Make sure you are following everything on the [rubric](../GradingRubric-for-Projects.md).

- **Check the [projects file](../Summer2018Projects.md) to make sure all relevant information about your project is recorded.**
