Modules/06.ScientificComputing/Lab-ScientificComputing.md, before:

## Lab 6 - Scientific Computation 3/12/2019

<!--
- One/Two page slide presentation of your project and post your slide in RCOS class channel #csci2963-01
-->

#### All of the steps below should be recorded in a github file `Lab6.Md` ####
 
- Graphs and Networks are ubiquitous in Scientific Computations. Networkx is an open source python package located here [https://networkx.github.io/](https://networkx.github.io/)

- A nice tutorial may be found in [https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/tutorial.html](https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/tutorial.html)

- Your task for this class is to use networkx to do graph theoretic/network computations.

Please start by doing the following:

- Download and Install networkx and matplotlib (See [http://matplotlib.org/](http://matplotlib.org/))

```bash
sudo apt-get install python-networkx python-matplotlib

```
or

```bash
pip install networkx matplotlib

```
or

```bash
conda install networkx matplotlib

```

- Investigate networkx using examples in [https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/tutorial.html](https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/tutorial.html), [https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/auto_examples/index.html](https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/auto_examples/index.html) and [https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/reference/index.html](https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/reference/index.html) (use this last site as a reference as you continue). You do not need to show anything in your lab report from this stage, but spending 10 or 15 minutes reviewing these resources will make your life easier.
- Run the example from [https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/auto\_examples/drawing/plot\_degree\_histogram.html#sphx-glr-auto-examples-drawing-plot-degree-histogram-py](https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/auto_examples/drawing/plot_degree_histogram.html#sphx-glr-auto-examples-drawing-plot-degree-histogram-py). If you get the image shown on that page, then your installation is working correctly.
- Stanford Graphbase is a book written by Prof. Donald Knuth and contains many interesting examples on graph algorithms and implementations of programs (written in literate programming style). [Here is an abstract of that book](http://tex.loria.fr/sgb/abstract.pdf). [Dr. Goldschmidt Master's thesis](Masters.pdf) is a Java implementation. These problems are also implemented in networkx.
- Download [https://github.com/rcos/networkx/blob/master/examples/graph/plot_words.py](https://github.com/rcos/networkx/blob/master/examples/graph/plot_words.py). This is a python implementation of the [word ladder game](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Word_ladder) courtesy of networkx. See also [http://wordplay.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/climb-the-ladder/](http://wordplay.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/climb-the-ladder/). Our ***fork*** is just a convenience so that we can rely on stable locations for the duration of the course. The algorithmic idea behind this
problem is the shortest path algorithm implemented in networkx. Look through the code and understand it. **This will be the basis for the rest of the lab. You are not required to start from scratch for any of the following exercises.** 
- Download words lists for words of [length five](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/master/examples/graph/words_dat.txt.gz) (or [direct link] (words_dat.txt.gz)) and words of [length four](words4_dat.txt.gz)


Once you have installed the tools and familiarized yourself with the networkx code, you are ready to begin recording your lab in your lab notebook. We will start with the problem of words of length 5 and words of length 4. 

1. The word game implementation you downloaded already takes words of length 5. Modify the base code to test the following words:
    1.   `chaos` to `order`
    2.   `nodes` to `graph`
    3.   `moron` to `smart`
    3.   `flies` to `swims`
    3.   `mango` to `peach`
    4.   `pound` to `marks`

  ***Include the code and a copy of your results in your lab notebook.***

3. Now generate a new version that takes words of length 4 and test with:
    4. `cold` to `warm`
    5. `love` to `hate`
    5. `good` to `evil`
    5. `pear` to `beef`
    5. `make` to `take`
    
  ***Include the code and a copy of your results in your lab notebook.***

4. Implement a variation where we consider two words (nodes) to be adjacent if there is a one letter difference without regard to ordering. You will need to change the edit\_distance\_one function to disregard letter position. Test with the 5 letter examples above. There are several ways to attack this. One way is to use multisets [(Counter)](https://docs.python.org/3.5/library/collections.html#collections.Counter) from the collections module, another is to use permutations from [itertools](https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html?highlight=permutations#itertools.permutations). Of the two, I ***highly*** recommend itertools. The multiset implementation is far more difficult to get correct.

   An example:

   ```bash
      Shortest path between chaos and order is
        chaos
        echos
        chore
        coder
        order
        
    ```
  Your path may be different.

  ***Include the code and a copy of your results in your lab notebook.***

4. ***(Optional)*** An interesting variation on word ladder is suggested in [http://rexwordpuzzle.blogspot.com/2017/02/actress-form-mixed-martial-arts.html](http://rexwordpuzzle.blogspot.com/2017/02/actress-form-mixed-martial-arts.html) - Your task is to find words that precede SLID, DOTE, HERD and OMEN and the words that follow (immediately) NINE, SELL, STAT and WHAT. To do this, create a function so that given the word SLID you print out all of the words that are 1 letter away from it (ie SLIT, SAID etc.). Do this for all all 8 of these words.

  ***Include the code and a copy of your results in your lab notebook.***

Document your program in a lab 6 writeup and then submit a text file with a link to this file via Submitty. Your lab report should contain:
	
	- Your results for the 4 five letter pairs
	- Your code for the four letter solution
	- Your results for the 2 four letter pairs
	- Your code for the unordered solution
	- Your results for the 4 five letter pairs using the unordered implementation
	- (OPTIONAL) your code for precede/follow
	- (OPTIONAL) precede/follow results

<!--
- Then create/fork a github repository for your project and work on your first commit
-->

Commit message:

Edited the example to work.
Shows Multipartite graph instead.

Modules/06.ScientificComputing/Lab-ScientificComputing.md, after:

## Lab 6 - Scientific Computation 3/12/2019

<!--
- One/Two page slide presentation of your project and post your slide in RCOS class channel #csci2963-01
-->

#### All of the steps below should be recorded in a github file `Lab6.Md` ####

- Graphs and Networks are ubiquitous in Scientific Computations. Networkx is an open source python package located here [https://networkx.github.io/](https://networkx.github.io/)

- A nice tutorial may be found in [https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/tutorial.html](https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/tutorial.html)

- Your task for this class is to use networkx to do graph theoretic/network computations.

Please start by doing the following:

- Download and Install networkx and matplotlib (See [http://matplotlib.org/](http://matplotlib.org/))

```bash
sudo apt-get install python-networkx python-matplotlib

```
or

```bash
pip install networkx matplotlib

```
or

```bash
conda install networkx matplotlib

```

- Investigate networkx using examples in [https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/tutorial.html](https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/tutorial.html), [https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/auto_examples/index.html](https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/auto_examples/index.html) and [https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/reference/index.html](https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/reference/index.html) (use this last site as a reference as you continue). You do not need to show anything in your lab report from this stage, but spending 10 or 15 minutes reviewing these resources will make your life easier.
- Run the example from [https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/examples/drawing/plot_multipartite_graph.py](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/main/examples/drawing/plot_multipartite_graph.py). If the script outputs a multipartite graph of different colors, the installation is working correctly.
- Stanford Graphbase is a book written by Prof. Donald Knuth and contains many interesting examples on graph algorithms and implementations of programs (written in literate programming style). [Here is an abstract of that book](http://tex.loria.fr/sgb/abstract.pdf). [Dr. Goldschmidt Master's thesis](Masters.pdf) is a Java implementation. These problems are also implemented in networkx.
- Download [https://github.com/rcos/networkx/blob/master/examples/graph/plot_words.py](https://github.com/rcos/networkx/blob/master/examples/graph/plot_words.py). This is a python implementation of the [word ladder game](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Word_ladder) courtesy of networkx. See also [http://wordplay.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/climb-the-ladder/](http://wordplay.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/climb-the-ladder/). Our ***fork*** is just a convenience so that we can rely on stable locations for the duration of the course. The algorithmic idea behind this
problem is the shortest path algorithm implemented in networkx. Look through the code and understand it. **This will be the basis for the rest of the lab. You are not required to start from scratch for any of the following exercises.** 
- Download words lists for words of [length five](https://github.com/networkx/networkx/blob/master/examples/graph/words_dat.txt.gz) (or [direct link] (words_dat.txt.gz)) and words of [length four](words4_dat.txt.gz)


Once you have installed the tools and familiarized yourself with the networkx code, you are ready to begin recording your lab in your lab notebook. We will start with the problem of words of length 5 and words of length 4. 

1. The word game implementation you downloaded already takes words of length 5. Modify the base code to test the following words:
    1.   `chaos` to `order`
    2.   `nodes` to `graph`
    3.   `moron` to `smart`
    3.   `flies` to `swims`
    3.   `mango` to `peach`
    4.   `pound` to `marks`

  ***Include the code and a copy of your results in your lab notebook.***

3. Now generate a new version that takes words of length 4 and test with:
    4. `cold` to `warm`
    5. `love` to `hate`
    5. `good` to `evil`
    5. `pear` to `beef`
    5. `make` to `take`
    

  ***Include the code and a copy of your results in your lab notebook.***

4. Implement a variation where we consider two words (nodes) to be adjacent if there is a one letter difference without regard to ordering. You will need to change the edit\_distance\_one function to disregard letter position. Test with the 5 letter examples above. There are several ways to attack this. One way is to use multisets [(Counter)](https://docs.python.org/3.5/library/collections.html#collections.Counter) from the collections module, another is to use permutations from [itertools](https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html?highlight=permutations#itertools.permutations). Of the two, I ***highly*** recommend itertools. The multiset implementation is far more difficult to get correct.

   An example:

   ```bash
      Shortest path between chaos and order is
        chaos
        echos
        chore
        coder
        order
        
   ```
    Your path may be different.

  ***Include the code and a copy of your results in your lab notebook.***

4. ***(Optional)*** An interesting variation on word ladder is suggested in [http://rexwordpuzzle.blogspot.com/2017/02/actress-form-mixed-martial-arts.html](http://rexwordpuzzle.blogspot.com/2017/02/actress-form-mixed-martial-arts.html) - Your task is to find words that precede SLID, DOTE, HERD and OMEN and the words that follow (immediately) NINE, SELL, STAT and WHAT. To do this, create a function so that given the word SLID you print out all of the words that are 1 letter away from it (ie SLIT, SAID etc.). Do this for all all 8 of these words.

  ***Include the code and a copy of your results in your lab notebook.***

Document your program in a lab 6 writeup and then submit a text file with a link to this file via Submitty. Your lab report should contain:
	
	- Your results for the 4 five letter pairs
	- Your code for the four letter solution
	- Your results for the 2 four letter pairs
	- Your code for the unordered solution
	- Your results for the 4 five letter pairs using the unordered implementation
	- (OPTIONAL) your code for precede/follow
	- (OPTIONAL) precede/follow results

<!--
- Then create/fork a github repository for your project and work on your first commit
-->
